We think you're visiting our site from
If you're not, please select the country you're currently in

I'm in Close this banner
Travel Assistance Travel Assistance
Medical conditions and pregnancy
Travelling can be a bit daunting if you have a medical condition or are pregnant, but in most cases you don't need to do anything different. You may need to take some precautions and the information below will help you understand what you need to do.

Medical clearance – am I fit to fly?
For some medical conditions you need to get medical clearance before you can fly, for example:

Recent illness, hospitalisation, injury or surgery
Existing unstable medical condition
Need for additional oxygen or use of medical equipment on board
Travelling for medical reasons or treatment
How to get medical clearance
Step 1: Download our Medical Clearance Form (pdf, 110kb, English only) and fill out part one.
Step 2: Ask your doctor to complete part two.
Step 3: Email the completed form (Step 1 and Step 2) to pmcu.pmcu@ba.com. Our Passenger Medical Clearance Unit (PMCU) will be able to advise if you're fit to fly. Medical forms should be despatched to the medical clearance team a minimum of 7 days prior to departure. Contact details for our PMCU can be found below. 
Passenger Medical Clearance Unit (PMCU)
British Airways has a dedicated Passenger Medical Clearance team who can assess your fitness to fly and advise if you'll be able to travel.

Available Monday to Friday, 08:00 to 16:00. Closed weekends and Bank Holidays

Telephone: + 44 (0) 1895 694807

Fax: + 44 (0) 20 8738 9644

Email: pmcu.pmcu@ba.com

If your flight is operated by one of our airline or franchise partners, they may have different processes so please contact them directly before you travel.

If you need to use medical equipment on board that contains batteries, there might be some restrictions. 

Find information regarding using batteries on board Find information regarding using batteries on board
Travelling when you're pregnant
We welcome expectant mothers on board our flights during most of their pregnancy. To ensure the health and wellbeing of both mother and baby on the flight, please follow our guidelines. You may not be allowed to travel from some countries without your medical documentation.

For your and your baby’s safety, you cannot fly after:

The end of the 36th week if you are pregnant with one baby
The end of the 32nd week if you are pregnant with more than one baby
We require you to have our pregnancy form, or an official letter, completed and stamped by your Doctor or Midwife. This is required once you reach week 28 of your pregnancy. Travelling earlier than 28 weeks does not require any paperwork.

The document should be dated as close to your travel date as possible and covers you for your entire journey (outbound and return), provided you do not require any medical care during your trip.

Once completed, signed and stamped, present this document to airport check-in staff on the day of your travel.

Download and complete the Pregnancy Form (pdf, 30kb, English only) Download and complete the Pregnancy Form (pdf, 30kb, English only)
Travelling with a medical escort
Sometimes, even if your medical condition is serious, you can still travel, but it must be with a medical escort. We recommend you book this through a recognised medical assistance company who specialise in this type of service.

Travelling with medicines, medical supplies or medical equipment
Please carry any medication you'll need for your flight, including liquid medicines, or medical supplies, such as syringes, in your smaller item of hand baggage. If possible, keep the medication in the original packaging and bring along a prescription or supporting letter from your doctor that confirms this medication is prescribed to you, to avoid delays at security or customs.
We're not able to keep your medication cool. Please talk to your pharmacist about alternative options.
You can check in up to two extra standard bags at the airport for journeys outside of the USA, if your bags carry essential medical supplies like dialysis fluid or colostomy bags. This applies when you’ve exceeded your hold baggage allowance, and the supplies are for your own personal use. They can weigh up to 23kg each and can be carried free of charge. These bags will be subject to authorisation at the airport.
On journeys that include travel to the USA, an unlimited number of standard bags weighing 23kg each can be checked in free of charge, subject to authorisation of their contents at the airport.
For bags containing liquid food, you can check in up to four extra standard bags weighing 23kg each at the airport on any journey that doesn’t include the USA, subject to authorisation of their contents at the airport.
On journeys that include travel to the USA, you can check in an unlimited number of standard bags each containing only liquid food, free of charge. They can weigh up to 23kg and they are subject to authorisation at the airport.
These additional bags should only contain medical supplies. If you include any other personal items, they won’t be authorised and you’ll have to pay extra to take them.
Please ensure that you provide an official medical letter signed and dated by your personal doctor/medical practitioner stating the following:
Your name and flight information, including booking reference details
List of medical supplies/medication to be carried and what their purpose is
Approximate weight/number of the items to be carried
Name and contact phone number/email of your physician or medical practitioner
If you don’t have this letter, you’ll need to pay excess baggage charges for any bags outside of your baggage allowance. A visual check of your medical bags may also be carried out to review their contents. You may also need your letter to assist with other countries' customs and immigration departments, as well as local security requirements.

In most circumstances, you can use your authorised medical equipment on board, except during taxi, take-off, approach and landing. All equipment must be able to work from a battery as we can’t guarantee a power supply on board.

Find information regarding using batteries on board Find information regarding using batteries on board
You can take asthma inhalers in your hand or checked baggage.
Medical clearance is not needed to travel with or use a CPAP Machine for sleep apnoea on board our aircraft. However, we recommend that you carry a letter from a medical professional stating why you need the machine for your journey.

You can carry your device in the cabin as an extra piece of hand-baggage without charge.

If you don’t need to use your CPAP machine in the cabin, and you want to check it into the hold, it will be permitted in addition to your free baggage allowance without charge.

If you need to use your CPAP machine on board, you will need a DC adapter to plug into the in-seat power supply where installed. We recommend always carrying a dry cell battery for your device should seat power not be available.

The maximum output of our in-seat power supply is 75 watts. If your machine needs a stronger output, you will need to bring a dry cell battery to power it.

You can take non-flammable, non-toxic gas cylinders worn for the operation of mechanical limbs in either your hand or your checked baggage. If required, you can also take spare cylinders of a similar size to ensure you have an adequate supply during your journey.
You can take epipens and hypodermic needles in your hand baggage (with a doctor's note/prescription) or in your checked baggage.
You can take liquid medication in your hand or checked baggage.

If you might need it during your journey, place it in your hand baggage. You can then carry as much as you need for your trip, even if this exceeds the usual limit on liquids, provided you have a supporting prescription or doctor’s note. The medicine does not need to fit in the transparent bag but you should have it ready for inspection by airport security.

You can use a battery-operated nebuliser on board except during taxi, take-off, descent and landing.

It is not possible to supply mains power on board.

We will only carry personal oxygen or air, gaseous, cylinders required for medical use if we're unable to provide the required flow rate on board.

If you need to take oxygen cylinders on board the aircraft for use during the flight or at your destination, please read the inflight oxygen information and required forms.  

Once approved, you can carry oxygen or air cylinders of max. 5kg gross weight in your hand or checked baggage.

Liquid oxygen systems are forbidden for transport.

You can usually take your portable dialysis machine with you on board as hand baggage but if it exceeds your hand baggage allowance you will need to check it in. This is free of charge.
Find out more about lithium ion/metal batteries in portable medical devices and how to get approval before you travel.
You can take a portable oxygen concentrator (POC) on board as part of your hand baggage allowance as long as it's approved by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).

If you think you'll need to use it during the flight, you will need to get medical clearance before you fly.

You should carry sufficient back up battery supply to cover a minimum of 150% of your entire travel time (including flight and transiting time).

If your device uses lithium batteries, it is important to provide us with the watt-hour (Wh) rating of each battery it contains. Sometimes this is provided as a wattage and amp-hour rating instead. The maximum battery size permitted is 160Wh each and you can take a maximum of two spare batteries in your hand baggage.

If your reservation is booked through British Airways but is operated by another airline, please check their own criteria for accepting portable oxygen concentrators on-board.

Find information regarding using batteries on board Find information regarding using batteries on board
You can only carry radioisotopic cardiac pacemakers or other devices (incl. those powered by lithium batteries) when implanted into your person or fitted externally, or radiopharmaceuticals contained within your body as the result of medical treatment. It is not possible to carry these items separately in your hand or checked baggage.
You can take tablets and capsules in your hand baggage (with a doctor's note/prescription) or in your checked baggage.
If you have any additional questions please contact PMCU If you have any additional questions please contact PMCU
Travel health information
Notifying us of an allergy

To notify us of your allergies before you travel or to discuss your specific needs, please contact us if your flight is operated by British Airways, BA Euroflyer or BA Cityflyer.

For flights operated by another carrier, you’ll need to contact them directly.

When travelling with us, you must let your cabin crew know of your food allergy when boarding your flight. This is still the case even if you’ve already contacted us about your allergy information, as there may be instances where crew do not have access to your booking details.

In-flight meals

If you have a food allergy, we offer alternative meals on our flights suitable for those who need to avoid potential allergens, including seafood, dairy, eggs and gluten.

Ordering an alternative meal

Alternative meals are available to order on all flights, except when you’re flying in Euro Traveller, our economy cabin on our short-haul routes. We don’t serve a complimentary meal during these flights.

You can purchase a wide range of refreshments from our High Life Café online before you travel in our Euro Traveller cabin, and we’ll deliver your food and drinks to your seat during your flight. Allergen information is available on the High Life website. You can also choose from a smaller selection of food items once you’re on board.

While on board

We source our food from all around the world.

Ingredients that are considered potential allergens in the UK may differ from those in other countries, so please be aware that packaging on food may not list all the allergens included in UK legislation on UK-bound flights.

When travelling with us, you must let your cabin crew know of your food allergy when boarding your flight. Our teams, including Customer Services, are not able to share your allergen information with cabin crew before your journey.

To assist with food allergies

You can bring your own food on board.
Upon request and following boarding, cabin crew will be able to provide information relating to the allergens contained within the meals served. In some instances, meal packaging will also provide this information.
To allow for cleaning and inspection of seats, customers will be able to pre-board the aircraft following presentation of there epinephrine/adrenaline auto-injector to staff at the gate. Customers must bring their own suitable wipes.
Please note the following

We cannot guarantee an allergen-free cabin environment or prevent other passengers from bringing their own food on board. Meals containing tree nuts may continue to be served throughout the aircraft and tree nut based snacks may also continue to be served in other cabins of travel depending on the aircraft type. We use the recommendations of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) for allergen-sensitive passengers to make sure your flight is as comfortable as we can make it.
We do not currently offer any alternative meals free from sesame, tree nuts, lupin, soya, sulphites, mustard or celery.
For customers consuming food of their choice, not provided by the airline - we are unable to heat or refrigerate any food items you might bring with you. If you prefer to consume your own food, we suggest non-perishable food. Please also check the different quarantine laws of your transit and/or destination with respect to food types permitted into the country.
Guidance for Peanut, Tree Nut or Sesame allergy sufferers

Our in-flight meals do not contain peanuts or peanut products. However, they may be produced at a facility that handles peanuts. We are unable to offer a peanut-free alternative meal.

We do not provide an alternative meal option for customers with tree nut or sesame allergies.

We cannot guarantee an allergen-free environment while travelling with us.

Upon request, Cabin Crew will make an announcement so that other passengers are aware of your allergy. Cabin Crew will also suspend the serving of loose nut snacks in your cabin of travel.

Serious life threatening allergic reactions (anaphylaxis)

Serious life threatening allergic reactions on board are rare, but if you suffer from a serious life threatening allergy always speak to your doctor before you book to discuss potential risks and how you can minimise becoming ill on your trip.

Here are a few examples of how you can prepare:

Your epinephrine/adrenaline auto-injector should be carried in your hand baggage and presented to airport security personnel if requested.
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine/adrenaline auto-injector like Epipen, Anapen, Twinject or Jext make sure you carry this with you in your hand baggage. Take an emergency treatment plan with you to minimise delays at airport security.
Clearly label your medication to show who it should be administered to.
You will be able to pre-board when you present your epinephrine/adrenaline auto-injector to staff at the gate. This will allow you to wipe down your seating area to help prevent inadvertent contact with allergen traces. Passengers must bring their own suitable wipes.
When boarding the aircraft you must inform cabin crew of your food allergy.
Advise cabin crew and the people seated next to you of your allergy, where you have placed the medication and what to do in an emergency. Our cabin crew can speak to people seated near to you to help explain your allergy.
Ensure your medication is easily accessible throughout the flight, e.g. place it in the seat pocket or on you personally.
Cabin crew are trained to recognise symptoms of anaphylaxis and administer treatment but if you are travelling with family, friends or guardians, they would be expected to treat you first.
Wear a medi-alert bracelet.
Anaphylaxis campaign website Anaphylaxis campaign website
We are required by the World Health Organisation (WHO) or local Health Authorities to spray the inside of the aircraft before arrival into certain destinations to prevent the risk of insects spreading highly dangerous diseases, such as malaria and dengue fever.

On routes where we are required to spray, cabin crew will advise that spraying is about to take place. This will give you the opportunity to cover your eyes and nose if you wish. The spray clears from the aircraft in a few minutes.

Contents of the insecticides

The sprays contain synthetic pyrethroids, which are widely used. The World Health Organisation (WHO) assesses the safety of insecticides and recommends the use of the following synthetic pyrethroids:

Phenothrin, which has lethal effects on domestic insect pests. It is used against mosquitoes, houseflies and cockroaches.
Permethrin, which is a broad spectrum insecticide used against a variety of pests.
For flights to Australia, the aircraft must be sprayed prior to departure from Singapore with a Permethrin insecticide spray.

British Airways flights that require disinsection

BA Flights arriving into the UK from these countries require disinsection

Algeria: Algiers
Argentina: Buenos Aires
Brazil: Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo
China: Beijing, Hong Kong SAR of China, Shanghai
Costa Rica: San Jose
Dominican Republic: Punta Cana
Egypt: Cairo
Ghana: Accra
India: Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai
Kenya: Nairobi
Korea, Republic of: Seoul
Malaysia: Kuala Lumpur
Mexico: Cancun, Mexico City
Nigeria: Abuja, Lagos
Oman: Muscat
Pakistan: Islamabad
Peru: Lima
Portugal: Funchal*
Saudi Arabia: Riyadh, Jeddah
South Africa: Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg
Thailand: Bangkok
* Request from Madeira health authorities (2015) due to possible Dengue fever risk

BA Flights departing from the UK to these countries require disinsection

Argentina: Buenos Aires
Barbados: Bridgetown
India: Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai
Italy*: Brindisi, Bologna, Rome, Florence, Milan (Linate and Malpensa), Naples, Olbia, Perugia, Palermo, Pisa, Venice
Jamaica: Kingston, Montego Bay
Kenya: Nairobi
Malaysia: Kuala Lumpur
Seychelles: Mahe
* Request from Italian health authorities (2024) due to possible Dengue fever risk – spraying required on all flights into Italy

BA Shuttle routes outside the UK which require disinsection

Flights departing from Antigua, arriving at Tobago
Flights departing from Dammam, arriving at Bahrain
Flights departing from Grenada, arriving at St Lucia
Flights departing from Port of Spain, arriving at St Lucia
Flights departing from Singapore, arriving at Sydney
Flights departing from St Lucia, arriving at Grenada
Flights departing from St Lucia, arriving at Port of Spain
If your diabetes is stable you can fly with no restrictions, however you need to take care to look after yourself during your trip.

If you are crossing time zones, make sure you know how to manage your insulin regime throughout the trip.
You should carry your insulin in your hand baggage, otherwise it may freeze in the hold.
Your insulin should be in the original packaging, easily identifiable and accessible during the flight.
Always carry a prescription or supporting letter from your doctor to avoid delays at security or customs.
To help you plan your meals and medication for your flight:

Long-haul flights: a complimentary meal is usually served within two hours of take-off, followed by a smaller meal within two hours of landing. There are also snacks available between meal services.
Short-haul flights: a complimentary snack and bottle of water is provided. You can also order food before your flight to be delivered to your seat from our High Life Cafe.  Orders can be placed up to 12 hours before departing the UK, and up to 24 hours before flying into the UK.
Travel advice from Diabetes UK Travel advice from Diabetes UK
Newborn with no medical complications

Normal Term: British Airways is able to carry new born babies born at normal term (40 weeks) with no medical complications once they are 48 hours old. However, we recommend waiting until they are one week old. These children need no prior medical clearance.

Premature Infants: British Airways is able to carry premature infants born at more than 37 weeks gestation, with no medical complications, once they have reached the normal delivery date (40 weeks) plus one week. These infants need no prior medical clearance.

Premature newborn and ex-premature infants

Children born at less than 37 weeks gestation that were born with no medical complications can be considered for carriage once they have reached normal term (40 weeks) plus one week, but they will require medical clearance until they reach 12 months old.

Children born at less than 37 weeks gestation that were born with any respiratory complications (e.g. neonatal chronic lung disease / bronchopulmonary dysplasia etc) cannot be considered for carriage until they have reached normal delivery date (40 weeks) plus 6 months. From normal term plus 6 months old until they reach their first birthday, they will require medical clearance.

In both cases please contact PMCU prior to booking.

Babies with medical conditions

Babies with any significant condition, such as cardiac disease, or any other condition requiring medical support, e.g. oxygen, medication, treatment during flight, should be discussed with PMCU prior to booking.

Download and complete the Medical Clearance Form (pdf, 110kb, English only) Download and complete the Medical Clearance Form (pdf, 110kb, English only)
If you wish to change your travel plans following a recent illness or surgery, contact your travel insurance provider before calling British Airways. 

You should only travel once your medical practitioner agrees you are fit to fly. Below is a rough guide.

Major chest, abdominal or cranial surgery: You can travel 10 days after. If you had surgery within 4 weeks of travel contact PMCU.
Tonsillectomy: You can travel 10 days after.
Appendectomy or abdominal keyhole surgery: You can travel 5 days after. You should obtain a fit to fly letter from your treating doctor.
Angioplasty: If the procedure went well you can usually fly after 3 days. Please contact PMCU.
Heart surgery: If you feel well you can travel after 10 days, but we suggest you wait until after 4 weeks if possible. If you had surgery within 4 weeks of travel contact PMCU.
Heart attack: You should not fly within 10 days and then only fly if it’s essential, but we recommend to wait until after 4 weeks. If you have been in hospital within 4 weeks of travel contact PMCU.
Angina: If you don’t have regular attacks you can fly at any time but always carry your medication in your hand baggage. If you have been in hospital within 4 weeks of travel contact PMCU.
Stable asthma: You can travel at any time but always carry your inhalers in your hand baggage.
Chronic bronchitis, emphysema or other forms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: If you can walk 50m, without oxygen and getting breathless, you should be fit to fly. If you can’t walk this far you may need supplementary in-flight oxygen, which must be pre-booked. Even if you're intending to use your own Portable Oxygen Concentrator (POC) contact PMCU.
Pneumothorax (deflated lung): You cannot fly unless the condition is fully resolved for at least 7 days (14 days if traumatic pneumothorax). If you had this condition within a month of the date you want to fly, contact PMCU.
Stroke: If you are feeling well enough and your symptoms are stable or improving you can fly after 5 - 14 days. If you had a stroke within 14 days of the date you want to fly, contact PMCU.
Epilepsy: You should not travel within 24 hours of a major seizure.
Ear or sinus infection: The air in your middle ear and sinuses needs to be able to stabilise when you fly by allowing your ears to pop. Do not fly if your ears or sinuses feel blocked. You may suffer severe pain or perforate your eardrums causing long-term damage.
Middle ear surgery: You can travel 10 days after.
Cataract surgery and corneal laser surgery: You can travel 1 day after.
Other eye surgery: At least 6 days (if gas introduced into your eye 2-6 weeks to allow any gas to be reabsorbed) If you had gas introduced into your eye (e.g. for treatment of detached retina) please contact PMCU who may need a report from your doctor.
Anaemia: If your haemoglobin is below 8.5g/dl please let us know by contacting PMCU.
Circulatory conditions, e.g. Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT): If you had recent circulatory conditions, such as DVT but have been discharged from hospital and your condition is resolved you should be fit to fly. Please contact PMCU.
Infectious disease: If you have an infectious disease and while it is still contagious, we are not allowed to carry you in line with International Health Regulations. Contact your doctor or PMCU to find out the infectivity period of your illness.
Sickle cell disease: You can travel after 10 days. Please contact PMCU.
Please check if you need any travel vaccinations for your destination before you travel. You can find more information about your country of travel and any medical information on the IATA Travel Centre.

In the UK, our preferred travel partner for health services is MASTA (Medical Advisory Services for Travellers Abroad). They have the largest network of travel clinics across the UK and offer expert travel medicine advice and treatment, including a comprehensive immunisation service and a wide range of anti-malarial drugs.

BA Travel Clinics vaccination records

If you were vaccinated at one of our BA Travel Clinics before they closed in August 2006 and need a letter confirming your vaccination or a duplicate certificate of your Yellow Fever vaccination, please write to British Airways Health Services address below with the required information. Please note that we can only trace back vaccination information as far as 2002.

For a letter confirming your vaccination:

Name
Address
Date of birth
Contact number
Please enclose a stamped addressed envelope
For a duplicate certificate of your Yellow Fever vaccination:

Name
Address
Date of birth
Contact number
Month and year of your Yellow Fever vaccination
Please enclose a stamped addressed envelope
There's an administrative charge of £10 for this service, which you need to pay by cheque made payable to British Airways Health Services.

Please send your letter to:

British Airways Health Services - Travel Clinic records
British Airways Plc
Waterside (HMAG)
PO Box 365
Harmondsworth
UB7 0GB

Traveller’s thrombosis or Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT) is a blood clot that forms in a vein, usually in the lower legs. Research has confirmed that if you are sitting in an aircraft, car, bus or train for more than four hours the risk of a blood clot forming may increase.

Factors increasing the risk of DVT include:

Being over the age of 40
Suffering previously from DVT or a pulmonary embolism or someone in your close family suffering from it
Use of oestrogen-therapy, oral contraceptives ('the Pill') or hormone-replacement therapy (HRT)
Pregnancy
Recent surgery or trauma, particularly to the abdomen, pelvic region or legs
Cancer
Some inherited blood-clotting abnormalities and other blood disorders.
If you think any of the factors above may affect you, seek medical advice before travelling. Your doctor may advise that compression stockings or anti-coagulant medication can help to avoid the possibility of DVT.

You can reduce the risk of DVT by:

Drinking normal amounts of fluid
Avoiding alcohol and caffeine
Avoiding smoking
Avoiding crossing your legs when you’re sitting down
Taking a walk around the cabin regularly
Standing in your seat area and stretching your arms and legs
Doing regular foot and leg exercises during the flight
Wearing loose-fitting, comfortable clothes when you’re travelling.
If you recently had a DVT but have been discharged from hospital and your condition is resolved you should be fit to fly. 

Please contact PMCU to advise if you need to get medical clearance.

If you have a broken bone and a plaster cast fitted you cannot fly within:

24 hours if your planned flight is less than two hours
48 hours if your flight is longer than two hours
There are no restrictions travelling with a shoe boot.

If you have a full leg cast you can travel in our First and Club World (business long-haul) cabins that offer more legroom. To be able to travel in our other cabins you will need to buy an extra seat (or seats) with moveable armrests so you can elevate your leg. Typically a child would require one extra seat, and an adult would require two extra seats.

In some circumstances these restrictions may not apply so please contact our PMCU to discuss your individual situation.

If you have a bi-valved (split) cast, you can travel at any time post injury, provided the cast is split.

The following illnesses can be contagious. We’ve put together some guidance on when you can travel.

Chickenpox: 6 days after the last crop of spots providing the spots have crusted/scabbed over and the passenger feels well and has no fever. You will require a letter from your Doctor confirming you are no longer contagious.
Cholera: When your symptoms have settled, you feel well enough to travel and the public heath authority in your destination country agrees you are fit to travel.
Hepatitis A: When you feel well enough to travel.
Measles: 5 days after the rash first appeared - you will require a letter from your Doctor stating you are no longer contagious.
Mumps: 8 days after the swelling began. You must feel well and have no fever.
Shingles: If lesions are covered with a dressing. You must be well with no fever and any pain must be well controlled.
Tuberculosis: If medical evidence proves you are not infectious.
Flu: Once your symptoms have resolved.
Short-haul flights (including connecting flights to and from long-haul segments)

Customers requiring therapeutic oxygen on short-haul flights will be required to make their own provisions for all short-haul segments of their itinerary. Acceptable therapeutic oxygen provisions are outlined below. Customers need to obtain medical clearance for approval of their own therapeutic oxygen provisions. Medical forms should be emailed to PMCU a minimum of 7 days prior to departure.

Complete your Medical Clearance Form (pdf, 110kb, English only).

Acceptable therapeutic oxygen provisions:

Portable Oxygen Concentrators

Customers may bring a FAA approved portable oxygen concentrator (for more information please visit the FAA website.
Customers must have sufficient battery provision for 150% of the flight duration (accounting for unexpected delays).
Customers need to obtain medical clearance in advance to bring a portable oxygen concentrator. Medical forms should be despatched to the medical clearance team a minimum of 7 days prior to departure. 
If your reservation is booked through British Airways but is operated by another airline, please check their own criteria for accepting portable oxygen concentrators on-board.
There are safety restrictions with double batteries used to power portable oxygen concentrators, because some do not meet IATA dangerous goods regulations. We accept batteries with a watt-hour rating of less than 100 watts. If you have a battery pack containing two batteries, for example 92.2wh + 92.2wh, we require clarity from the manufacturer that these batteries are electronically separated.  Currently, the only double batteries accepted on board are Inogen BA408, BA500, BA516 and Sequal Eclipse. Please ensure you take a picture of the bottom of your battery and email it to PMCU along with your Medical Clearance Form (pdf, 110kb, English only) so we can check your battery type.

Oxygen Cylinders

Customers may bring oxygen cylinders, providing they are manufactured specifically for the purposes of containing and transporting oxygen. We accept British Oxygen Company (BOC) cylinders only.  
Each cylinder and its contents must not exceed 5kg in weight.
Only one customer per flight will be permitted to bring their own oxygen cylinders on board.
Cylinders, valves and regulators, where fitted, must be protected from damage that could result in inadvertent release of the contents.
Liquid oxygen, oxygen generators and oxygen cans are all forbidden on board the aircraft.
Customers need to obtain medical clearance in advance to bring their own oxygen cylinders. Medical forms should be despatched to the medical clearance team a minimum of 7 days prior to departure.
Complete your Personal Oxygen Request Form (pdf, 35kb, English only) and also your Medical Clearance Form (pdf, 110kb, English only) and email to PMCU.

Long-haul flights

We can only provide in-flight therapeutic oxygen to one person on board so if you need to use oxygen you must book it in advance. It's important to contact the Passenger Medical Clearance Unit to check availability prior to booking your flights. Please note we cannot provide oxygen on the ground at an airport.

On board our Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 aircraft we offer the Avia Technique Pulse dose cylinder: Oxygen is provided ‘on demand’ and your Doctor will need to confirm that you can use this.

There is no charge for in-flight therapeutic oxygen.

If therapeutic oxygen is required, you will need medical clearance to fly. See details at the top of the page. Please allow the medical clearance team 48 hours to process your request. Medical forms should be sent to the team a minimum of 7 days prior to departure.

Please complete your medical form Please complete your medical form
If you need to dispose of needles, lancets, syringes or empty insulin cartridges on board please ask the cabin crew for the sharps box. Please do not leave the items in the toilets or seat pockets.