We think you're visiting our site from
If you're not, please select the country you're currently in

I'm in Close this banner
Baggage essentials Baggage essentials
Sports equipment
Find out if you can bring your sporting equipment on board with you, check it in to your baggage allowance or if you need to take extra steps before you travel. From golf clubs to pedal bikes, diving equipment and more, explore how we can help make your journey as easy as possible.

No matter if you’re a golfer, a rock climber, deep sea diver or snowboarder, there’s plenty of space for your weird and wonderful items. Just tell us you are bringing your sporting equipment by using our online chat via our contacts page as soon as you have booked your flight.

If you’ve already used your free checked baggage allowance, you may have to pay to put extra bags in the hold.

Anything heavier or larger than the maximum checked baggage dimensions must be shipped as cargo.

What sports equipment are you bringing?
Need to go over the weight and size limits? No problem. Heavy and big items can be shipped as cargo.

The only exception is a pedal bike box, which can be taken as checked baggage. Just let us know you’re bringing it beforehand.

We know how precious and valuable your equipment is, so make sure it’s packed securely and that you have adequate travel insurance.

Some sharp, electrical or potentially dangerous items aren’t allowed on board the aircraft. It’s best to contact us to check or have a look at our list of restricted items.

You can take non-motorised, non-electric pedal bicycles or push bikes in a bicycle cover or box on our flights. They count as one item of your checked baggage allowance.

If you’re on our Economy Basic fare, which has no hold baggage allowance, or you’ve already used your free checked baggage allowance, you’ll have to pay to put your bike and container in the hold as an extra checked bag.

What size bike can you bring?

We need to know how big your bike container is and how much it weighs.

Your bike can be transported in a hard-shell box or padded bike bag up to 190 x 95 x 65 cm (75 x 37.5 x 25.5 in).

A bike box or bike bag is considered an oversize or out-of-gauge bag. You’ll need to check your bike in and then drop it off at the airport out-of-gauge bag drop no later than:

3 hours (180 minutes) before departure on long haul 
2 hours (120 minutes) before departure on short haul
This will make it more likely that your bike will travel on the same flight as you.

Let us know you’re bringing your bike

As soon as you’ve booked your flight, let us know that you’re bringing your bike by using the online chat on our Help page.

Please do this as soon as possible, as some flights are very popular with cyclists. Your bike is more likely to travel with you if you tell us in advance, and at least three days (more than 72 hours) before you fly.

Travelling with your bike

Please ensure your bike is clearly labelled with your details on the outside and inside of its cover or box, preferably fastened to the bike frame.

Clothes and other personal items must not be packed in your bike cover or box. This may cause delays during security screening or mean your bike cannot travel. 

You can take most items as part of your checked baggage allowance if it’s packed in a recognised kit bag and doesn’t exceed the maximum size and weight for checked baggage. 

Accepted items are: 

Scuba regulator
Tank harness
Tank pressure gauge (pressure-sensitive devices may need special packaging; refer to the manufacturer for advice)
Face mask
Fins
Buoyancy control device
Snorkel
Weight belt
Cylinder tank 
Spear guns
Harpoons
Diving lamps 
Cylinder tanks must be empty and presented at check-in for inspection. Spear guns and harpoons must be packed separately
If you’re taking a diving lamp, please contact us at least 24 hours before you travel to get approval. Please remove the bulb or fuse and pack it separately from the power source.

Golfing equipment packed in a protective golf bag, or hard case, can be taken as one item of your checked baggage allowance if your ticket includes checked baggage.

Your golf bag may include items such as a set of golf clubs, a golf umbrella, a dozen balls, golf tees and a pair of golf shoes.

A golf bag is considered oversize or out-of-gauge baggage. You’ll need to check your golf bag in and then drop it off at the airport out-of-gauge bag drop no later than:

3 hours (180 minutes) before departure on long haul 
2 hours (120 minutes) before departure on short haul
This will make it more likely that your golf bag will travel on the same flight as you.

When you need to pay for an additional bag

If you're travelling on our Economy Basic fare, which has no checked baggage allowance, or you’ve already used your checked baggage allowance, you’ll have to pay to put your golf bag in the hold as an extra checked bag. The best price is available online through Manage My Booking, otherwise you might have to pay the full price at the airport.

If you carry your golf umbrella or any large umbrella or parasol separately, it will need to be checked in and will count as an item of checked baggage. You may have to pay a fee if you are over your baggage weight or number allowance.

Let us know if you’re bringing your golf bag

As soon as you’ve booked your flight, let us know you’re bringing your golf bag by filling in our email form and selecting  ‘Baggage queries’ from the drop-down. If you need to pay for an extra checked bag, you’ll need to do this on Manage My Booking before you email us.

Please do this as soon as possible. Your golf bag is more likely to travel with you if you tell us in advance and at least three days (more than 72 hours) before you fly.

You can travel with firearms as checked baggage under very specific conditions.

You must contact us at least 72 hours before you fly to request approval and to comply with any government embargoes and restrictions. If you don’t contact us, your equipment won’t be allowed on board. Read more about firearms requirements.

You can take skiing or snowboarding equipment as part of your checked baggage so long as the bag is within 190 x 75 x 65cm.

Skis and snowboards must be packed in a protective bag and can be in the same bag as your boots or clothes. 

If you pack your boots separately from your skis or snowboard, your boot bag can be carried as your larger piece of hand baggage if it's within the correct dimensions. If it isn't, it must be checked in and will count as an extra checked bag.

For safety reasons you can’t board the aircraft wearing ski boots.

Let us know you are bringing your snow sports bag

As soon as you have made your booking, let us know that you’re bringing your snow sport bag, especially if you know that you are on a popular snow sport route. Your snow sport bag is more likely to travel with you if you tell us in advance and at least three days (more than 72 hours) before you fly. 

A snow sport bag is an oversize or out-of-gauge bag so check your snow sport bag in and drop it off at the out-of-gauge baggage belt no later than:

3 hours (180 minutes) before departure on long haul 
2 hours (120 minutes) before departure on short haul
This will make it more likely that your bag will travel on the same flight as you.

You can take short surfboards and small kayaks with paddles in a protective bag as part of your checked baggage as long as the packed bag is under 190cm in length. Clothes and other personal items must not be packed in with your equipment.

Larger surfboards, kayaks, canoes and paddles need to be booked in as cargo.

A sports racket for games such as tennis, squash or badminton is permitted as hand baggage if carried in a slim protective case, as one of your two pieces of hand baggage allowed in the cabin, providing:

The case contains a maximum of two rackets and is under 80 cm long, 45 cm wide and 10 cm deep. 
No additional items, such as balls, shuttlecocks or clothing, are packed in the racket case.
The racket case is stowed on top of other items in the overhead lockers to prevent damage and maximise space.
If you carry three or more rackets, these must be packed in a protective bag and checked into the hold as part of your checked baggage allowance.

Be aware that certain sports items are not permitted as hand baggage through airport security points at some airports, so check local requirements.

Other sporting items such as collapsed fishing rods, billiard/snooker/pool cues, hockey sticks or traditional skateboard decks cannot be carried as part of your hand baggage due to their length, as they are typically over the 56cm length limit of items in the cabin.  These sporting items must always be carried in the hold, so it’s best to pack them in a protective bag or pack them in your suitcase.  

Each piece packed separately counts as an extra item towards your total baggage allowance and you may be charged for extra bags if you exceed your free hand or checked baggage allowance.

Electric skateboards are not permitted on our aircraft at all, either in the cabin or in the hold, due to the unstable nature of lithium batteries.

Travelling on partner airlines
The weight of your bag as well as the number of bags you are allowed may be different when travelling on flights operated by our partner airlines, even if you are booked under a BA flight number. These are also called code-share flights, and the operating airline will be named in your itinerary.

If a journey with connecting flights includes ‘BA’ and other airline codes, such as ‘AA’ or ‘IB’, your baggage allowance is generally determined by the airline that operates the longest flight in your itinerary.

To learn more about baggage allowance on our partner airlines, please use the links below:

American Airlines
Finnair
Iberia
Japan Airlines
Qatar Airways
China Southern Airlines